---
title: My technical journey
description: A short walk through tech stacks I've used
date: 2026-06-18
tags: story
draft: false
---

While I did a programming course when I was a child, around ten years maybe, I didn't have regular access to a computer. So all my contact with computers and programming was casual, irregular.

I started programming around the second half of 1994, I got my first 486 DX 2 computer around June of 1994 and that was love at first sight.

I was studying Electrical Engineering at that time and during one of our breaks I commented I was eager to get to the second semester to course a programming class in our curriculum that was going to teach us Pascal. But a friend told me that Pascal wasn't good and that C was a better programming language. So next thing I did during the very next recess was go to the University library and request a book on C programming, they gave me _The C Programming Language_ by Kernighan & Ritchie.

So I taught myself C programming during the winter recess, before learning Pascal, the "teaching language" chosen by the University at that time.

Later I switched careers, after realising I love programming. Went to study Computer Science and there, besides the things they taught me, I learned Perl myself, cause it was cool and I was very into Regexps. Years later I had the opportunity to work with Perl again, and I noticed I didn't recall the minimum to write a "Hello World". Then I learned that language with more symbols than words present themselves as concise and practical, but they are not for human beings.

Then there was Python, I blogged about it, I remember writing I thought it would be the language of the future. I don't know about that now, but certainly Python has done well and it's still on the top lists for popular programming languages.

When I decided to become a professional programmer, the world was PHP on the LAMP stack. So I taught myself PHP and worked with it. By 2009 Nodejs hit the news and I was very interested from the very beginning. I was constantly struggling when switching from PHP to Javascript and I thought that being able to program full-stack in a single language would impose less cognitive load.

So I started looking forward to become a Nodejs programmer, but the world still clung to PHP and only by 2014 I managed to get my first gig doing something in Nodejs.

In between I've always been interested in functional languages and esoteric ones, but I never have worked professionally with one of those, only toyed with them.

Since 2022, AI has taken the world by storm and I've been hearing programmers will disappear almost every week since. So it's a nice time to be alive and pivot again, this time not by learning a new stack or a new programming language, but a new way to develop software.
